---
title: 'About Cookies'
---

<script setup>
  import CookieReset from '~@/components/CookieReset.vue';
</script>

<div class='markdown markdown-statement'>

# About Cookies

<hr/>

## 1. Cookie

A cookie is a text file stored by a web server on a computer or mobile device, and the content of a cookie can be retrieved or read only by the server that created the cookie. Cookies are unique to the browser or mobile application you are using. The text in a cookie often consists of identifiers, site names, and some numbers and characters.

The openEuler community sometimes stores cookies on computers or mobile devices. We use cookies to improve user experience, including:

1. Strictly necessary cookies: When you use the website, cookies ensure that your visit to the website is as smooth and secure as possible.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Source</th>
      <th>Expiration</th>
      <th>Purpose</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>_Y_G_</td>
      <td>openEuler website</td>
      <td>session</td>
      <td>Maintain user login sessions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>_U_T_</td>
      <td>openEuler website</td>
      <td>10 hours</td>
      <td>Prevent cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>agreed-cookiepolicy-zh, agreed-cookiepolicy-en</td>
      <td>openEuler website</td>
      <td>6 months</td>
      <td>Record whether the user agrees to accept cookies.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>openEuler-theme-appearance</td>
      <td>openEuler website</td>
      <td>6 months</td>
      <td>Record the user's preference for the website theme.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>HWWAFSESID, HWWAFSESTIME</td>
      <td>Huawei Cloud WAF</td>
      <td>session</td>
      <td>Prevent malicious attacks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>_forum_session, _t</td>
      <td>forum website</td>
      <td>7 days</td>
      <td>Maintains user sessions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>express_sid</td>
      <td>etherpad website</td>
      <td>1 day</td>
      <td>Maintains user sessions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>token</td>
      <td>etherpad website</td>
      <td>60 days</td>
      <td>Record the author's random token, which will be generated by the client.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>prefs</td>
      <td>etherpad website</td>
      <td>1 year, 1 month, 1 week</td>
      <td>Record the client's preference settings, which are used to set font series, colors, and other content.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>sessionId</td>
      <td>compatibility certification website</td>
      <td>30 minutes</td>
      <td>Maintains user sessions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>XSRF_TOKEN</td>
      <td>compatibility certification website</td>
      <td>30 minutes</td>
      <td>Protects against cross-site request forgery attacks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Authorization</td>
      <td>EulerMaker website</td>
      <td>4 hours</td>
      <td>Protects against cross-site request forgery attacks.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

2. Statistical analysis cookies. We collect information about your use of our website. These cookies help us understand how the services are performing and being used.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Source</th>
      <th>Expiration</th>
      <th>Purpose</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Cookies related to Baidu Analytics. For details about the name, please refer to <a href="https://tongji.baidu.com/holmes/Analytics/隐私合规指南/百度统计相关Cookie列表/">the list of cookies related to Baidu Analytics.</a></td>
      <td>For details about the source, please refer to <a href="https://tongji.baidu.com/holmes/Analytics/隐私合规指南/百度统计相关Cookie列表/">the list of cookies related to Baidu Analytics.</a></td>
      <td>For details about the expiration, please refer to <a href="https://tongji.baidu.com/holmes/Analytics/隐私合规指南/百度统计相关Cookie列表/">the list of cookies related to Baidu Analytics.</a></td>
      <td>For details about the purpose, please refer to <a href="https://tongji.baidu.com/holmes/Analytics/隐私合规指南/百度统计相关Cookie列表/">the list of cookies related to Baidu Analytics.</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The openEuler community does not use cookies for any purposes other than those described in this statement. You can manage or delete cookies based on your preferences. For details, visit [AboutCookies.org](https://www.aboutcookies.org/). You can clear all cookies saved on your computer. Most browsers are set to block cookies. But if you do so, you need to change the user settings yourself every time you visit our website. For details about how to change the browser settings, please visit the following links: [Internet Explorer](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-gb/internet-explorer/delete-manage-cookies), [Google Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en), [Mozilla Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/cookies-information-websites-store-on-your-computer?redirectlocale=en-US&redirectslug=Cookies), [Safari](https://support.apple.com/kb/PH19214?locale=en_US&viewlocale=en_US) and [Opera](http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/privacy/).

If you clear cookies, you need to change user settings each time you visit the openEuler community website. Note that some services in the openEuler community may require cookies. Disabling cookies may affect all or some functions of these services.

You can click <CookieReset/> to withdraw your consent to non-necessary cookies.

## 2. Similar Technologies

In addition to cookies, we may use other technologies to automatically collect information.

Browser web storage: We may use browser web storage (including HTML5), also known as local storage, for similar purposes to those of cookies. Browser web storage can store more data than cookies. Your web browser may provide the function to clear the data stored therein.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Source</th>
      <th>Expiration</th>
      <th>Purpose</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>oa-openEuler-client, oa-openEuler-events，oa-openEuler-session</td>
      <td>openEuler website</td>
      <td>Permanent</td>
      <td>Record your application ID, events, and sessions.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 3. Do Not Track

Many browsers provide the "Do Not Track" feature, which sends the "Do Not Track" request to websites. So far, major Internet standardization organizations have not established policies to regulate how websites should respond to such requests.
The openEuler community does not change how data is collected and used as described in this statement based on the "Do Not Track" setting you have selected or other opt-out settings or features that your browser may provide. However, the openEuler community reserves the right to change the data processing mode without notifying you.

</div>
